---
title: "Electronics Cheatsheet"
categories:
  - engineering
tags:
  - electricity
  - electronics
comments: true
---

# A brief walkthrough on concepts in electricity

I've learned about the difference between volts, amps and watts multiple times, but the knowledge never seems to stick. Hopefully this summary will help, and give me/others something to refer to.

# Fundamentals: Volts, Amps and Watts

Electricity is the flow of electrons, which are negatively charged, from a negative to a positive terminal. Electrons repel each other like magnets, pushing eaech other along. Conductive materials like metals have mobile electrons in their outer rings, allowing electrons to flow easily between atoms. As this is the flow we're talking about, the water analogy is often used when describing the main measures of electricity.

Volts (V): Electrical potential difference between two points, e.g. a negative and positive battery terminal, or the two terminals in your electrical socket. In the water analogy, volts is usally pressure: how fast the water is flowing, and what makes it flow at all. If you think back to electrons being magnets pushing each other apart, the voltage is how close they are together, so how strongly they're pushing each other apart. The voltage still exists even if a circuit is not flowing: the potential for a battery to do work is there even when it's not doing it. 

Amps (I from intensity, but sometimes A): AKA current, the volume of water flowing. If you held the water pressure constant, but varied the width of the pipe, you'd changing the amperage.

Watts (W): Volts x Amps, or power, equal to 1 joule per second.

Resistance (Ω, Ohms): Reduces the amperage. Ohm's law: V = IR.

V = IR
